README.md, before:

# UiConfig Blueprint.js

[![NPM Package](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/uiconfig-blueprint.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/uiconfig-blueprint)
[![License: Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-green.svg)](https://opensource.org/license/apache-2-0/)

Blueprint.js theme/wrapper library for [uiconfig.js](https://github.com/repalash/uiconfig.js): A UI renderer framework to dynamically generate website/configuration UIs from a JSON-like configurations and/or typescript decorators. 

It includes several components for editor-like user interfaces like folders, panels, sliders, pickers, inputs for string, number, file, vector, colors, etc.

The UI components are bound to javascript/typescript objects and properties through a simple and flexible JSON configuration.

### Examples

Basic Examples: https://repalash.com/uiconfig-blueprint/examples/index.html

Threepipe Basic UI: https://threepipe.org/examples/#blueprintjs-ui-plugin/

Threepipe Editor: https://threepipe.org/examples/#blueprintjs-editor/

## Installation and Usage

### npm package

Install the `uiconfig-blueprint` package from npm.
```bash
npm install uiconfig-blueprint
```

Use in any javascript/typescript file.
```typescript
import { UI } from 'uiconfig-blueprint';

const config = {
    type: "slider",
    label: "slider",
    value: 0.5,
    bounds: [0, 1],
    onChange: () => {
        console.log("changed", config.value);
    },
}

const ui = new UI();
ui.appendChild(config);
```

### CDN link

The module can be imported to HTML/JS a CDN link using [unpkg](https://unpkg.com/) or [jsdelivr](https://www.jsdelivr.com/).

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/uiconfig-blueprint"></script>
<!--or-->
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/uiconfig-blueprint"></script>
```

The module can be accessed with the short-form `bpui`
```html
<script>
    const config = {
        type: "button",
        label: "click me",
        onClick: () => {
            console.log("clicked");
        },
    }
    
    const ui = new bpui.UI()
    ui.appendChild(config)
</script>
```

## Configuration

Check the documentation at [uiconfig.js](https://github.com/repalash/uiconfig.js) on how to create a configuration for the UI.

## Components

1. `folder` - A folder that can be collapsed and expanded. It can have other components as children.
2. `panel` - A panel that will replace the current panel.
3. `input` - A text input field for any kind of primitive types. The type is determined automatically from initial value.
4. `number` - A number input field for numbers.
5. `slider` - A slider for numbers. 
6. `dropdown` - A dropdown. Options can be specified in children with label and optional value properties.
7. `checkbox/toggle` - A toggle for boolean values.
8. `button` - A button that can trigger a function, `onClick` or bound property/value function.
9. `color` - A color picker for colors.
10. `vector/vec/vec2/vec3/vec4` - Multiple number input fields in a row for vectors.
11. `image` - A file input field for files.

## Three.js integration

Set the three.js classes for Color, Vector2, Vector3, Vector4 in the renderer and the color and vector components will automatically use them.

```typescript
import { UI } from 'uiconfig-blueprint';
import { Color, Vector4, Vector3, Vector2 } from 'three';

const ui = new UI();
ui.THREE = {Color, Vector4, Vector3, Vector2}
```


## Development

Clone the project and install dependencies.
```bash
git clone git://github.com/repalash/uiconfig-blueprint.git
npm install
```

Run the development server.
```bash
npm run dev
```
Navigate to the given URL to view the examples. Make changes in the `src` folder and the page will automatically reload.

Build the project.
```bash
npm run build
```

Publish the project to npm.
```bash
npm publish
```

## License
All code is licensed under [Apache 2.0](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Several updates, add lib build.

README.md, after:

# UiConfig Blueprint.js

[![NPM Package](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/uiconfig-blueprint.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/uiconfig-blueprint)
[![License: Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-green.svg)](https://opensource.org/license/apache-2-0/)

Blueprint.js theme/wrapper library for [uiconfig.js](https://github.com/repalash/uiconfig.js): A UI renderer framework to dynamically generate website/configuration UIs from a JSON-like configurations and/or typescript decorators. 

It includes several components for editor-like user interfaces like folders, panels, sliders, pickers, inputs for string, number, file, vector, colors, etc.

The UI components are bound to javascript/typescript    objects and properties through a simple and flexible JSON configuration.

### Examples

Basic Examples: https://repalash.com/uiconfig-blueprint/examples/index.html

Threepipe Basic UI: https://threepipe.org/examples/#blueprintjs-ui-plugin/

Threepipe Editor: https://threepipe.org/examples/#blueprintjs-editor/

## Installation and Usage

### npm package

Install the `uiconfig-blueprint` package from npm.
```bash
npm install uiconfig-blueprint
```

Use in any javascript/typescript file.
```typescript
import { UI } from 'uiconfig-blueprint';

const config = {
    type: "slider",
    label: "slider",
    value: 0.5,
    bounds: [0, 1],
    onChange: () => {
        console.log("changed", config.value);
    },
}

const ui = new UI();
ui.appendChild(config);
```

### CDN link

The module can be imported to HTML/JS a CDN link using [unpkg](https://unpkg.com/) or [jsdelivr](https://www.jsdelivr.com/).

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/uiconfig-blueprint"></script>
<!--or-->
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/uiconfig-blueprint"></script>
```

The module can be accessed with the short-form `bpui`
```html
<script>
    const config = {
        type: "button",
        label: "click me",
        onClick: () => {
            console.log("clicked");
        },
    }
    
    const ui = new bpui.UI()
    ui.appendChild(config)
</script>
```

## Configuration

Check the documentation at [uiconfig.js](https://github.com/repalash/uiconfig.js) on how to create a configuration for the UI.

## Components

1. `folder` - A folder that can be collapsed and expanded. It can have other components as children.
2. `panel` - A panel that will replace the current panel.
3. `input` - A text input field for any kind of primitive types. The type is determined automatically from initial value.
4. `number` - A number input field for numbers.
5. `slider` - A slider for numbers. 
6. `dropdown` - A dropdown. Options can be specified in children with label and optional value properties.
7. `checkbox/toggle` - A toggle for boolean values.
8. `button` - A button that can trigger a function, `onClick` or bound property/value function.
9. `color` - A color picker for colors.
10. `vector/vec/vec2/vec3/vec4` - Multiple number input fields in a row for vectors.
11. `image` - A file input field for files.

## Three.js integration

Set the three.js classes for Color, Vector2, Vector3, Vector4 in the renderer and the color and vector components will automatically use them.

```typescript
import { UI } from 'uiconfig-blueprint';
import { Color, Vector4, Vector3, Vector2 } from 'three';

const ui = new UI();
ui.THREE = {Color, Vector4, Vector3, Vector2}
```


## Development

Clone the project and install dependencies.
```bash
git clone git://github.com/repalash/uiconfig-blueprint.git
npm install
```

Run the development server.
```bash
npm run dev
```
Navigate to the given URL to view the examples. Make changes in the `src` folder and the page will automatically reload.

Build the project.
```bash
npm run build
```

Publish the project to npm.
```bash
npm publish
```

## License
All code is licensed under [Apache 2.0](LICENSE).

## Library usage in react

This part is still a WIP.

Note: First check the dependencies.

Import from `uiconfig-blueprint/lib` build.

```javascript
import {ConfigurationPanelComponent} from 'uiconfig-blueprint/lib/esm/lib'
```
